New topic - Request-based SLO (#2067)
harness/developer-hub: docs/service-reliability-management/slo/request-based-slo.md

Let's say you have a website that allows users to search for products. To measure the SLI, you would track the number of search requests that were completed successfully (example: the user received the search results) and divide it by the total number of search requests made.

For example, if you had 100 search requests and 95 of them returned the expected results, then the SLI would be 95/100 = 0.95 or 95%. This means that 95% of the search requests were successful.

## Prerequisites

- A Harness Delegate. Ensure that you have installed a Harness Delegate that can communicate with Harness, your health source, and change sources. For more information, go to [Get started with delegates](/docs/platform/2_Delegates/install-delegates/overview.md).
  
- An Organization in Harness. If you haven't already created one, go to [Create organizations and projects](/docs/platform/organizations-and-projects/create-an-organization.md).

- A project in Harness. If you haven't already created one, follow these steps.

<details>
<summary><b> Steps to create a project in Harness.</b></summary>

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a project in Harness, do the following:
```

Author: Updated

   
2. On the **About the Project** page, do the following, and then select **Save and Continue**: 
   - **Name**: Enter a name for the project.
   - **Color**: Select a color theme for the project.
   - **Organization**: Select an organization for the project. If you don't yet have an organization in Harness, and want to learn how to create one, go to [Create a Harness Org](/docs/platform/organizations-and-projects/create-an-organization.md).
3. On the **Invite Collaborators (Optional)** page, in the **Invite People to Collaborate** field, add team members to the project.
4. In the **Role** field, assign a role to the collaborators.
5. Select **Add**.
6. Select **Save and Continue**.  
   Your project has been created.

</details>

- Health source connector. Ensure that your health source is connected to Harness. The health source can be a monitoring and logging system such as Prometheus. This enables Harness to collect health and performance metrics and monitor your SLO. For more information, go to [Connect to Monitoring and Logging Systems](/docs/platform/Connectors/Monitoring-and-Logging-Systems/connect-to-monitoring-and-logging-systems).

> ## Create a request based SLO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a request-based SLO
```

Author: Updated

> To create a request based SLO:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a request-based SLO, do the following:
```

Author: Updated

1. In your Harness project, navigate to the **Service Reliability** module, and then select **SLOs** > **+ Create SLO**.  
   The Create SLO page appears.

   ![Create SLO page](./static/create-request-sli.png)

### Enter SLO details

In the **SLO details** section, do the following:

1. Enter a name for the SLO, an optional **Description**, and a **Tag**. Select a **Monitored Service** and a **User Journey**, and then select **Next**.

### Configure Service Level Indicators (SLIs)

> SLI is like a ruler or a tool that you use to measure your service's performance. It helps you determine how close or far you are from meeting your SLO so that you can take corrective action if necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SLIs are tools you use to measure your service's performance. They help you determine how close or far you are from meeting your SLO, so that you can take corrective action if necessary.
```

In this section, you will configure a request-based SLI for your SLO. A request-based SLI is a measurement that tells you how well a service is performing based on the ratio of successful requests to the total number of requests.

> To configure request-based SLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure request-based SLIs, do the following:
```

1. Select a **Health Source to manage the service level**. If you haven't already added a health source, follow these instructions.

<details>
<summary><b> Steps to add a health source.</b></summary>

> To add a health source:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a health source, do the following:
```

5. Under the **Connect Health Source** section, click the **Select Connector** field.  
   The Create or Select an Existing Connector dialog appears.
6. Choose your health source connector and select **Apply Selected**. For example, "Prometheus".
   
   :::info note
   Depending on the settings you configured when adding the connector to Harness, you may need to choose the connector from the **Project** tab, the **Organization** tab, or the **Account** tab.
   :::

7. Depending on the health source you choose, select either the **Metrics** or **Logs** option from the **Select Feature** field. The **Metric** or **Log** option may be preselected based on the health source you choose. For instance, if you choose **prometheus** as your health source, the **apm** option will be selected by default.
8. Select **Next**.

##### Configure metrics or logs

The configuration settings for health source metrics depend on the selected health source and feature. For instance, if you select **Prometheus** as your health source, you will need to configure following settings.

##### Define a query

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define query, do the following:
```

Author: Updated

1. In the **Query Specifications and Mapping** section, in the **Group Name** field, select **+ Add New**.  
   The New Prometheus Group Name dialog appears.
   

> 2. Enter a name for the group and select **Submit**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enter a name for the group, and select **Submit**. 
```

> 3. Expand **Build your Query** and do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Expand **Build your Query**, and do the following:
```

   
   - From the **Prometheus Metric** dropdown list, select a filter for metric.
   - From the **Filter on Environment** dropdown list, select a filter for environment.
   - (Optional) From the **Additional Filter (optional)** dropdown list, select additional filters to add to the service.
   - (Optional) From the **Aggregator (optional)** dropdown list, select an aggregator for the metric.

   Once you select the desired values, a query is automatically generated and a sample metric graph is displayed. This helps to verify that the query has been constructed accurately.

4. Expand **Assign** to assign the metric to the following Harness services:
   
   - SLI
   - Service Health
   - Continuous Verification

5.  After completing the configuration of the health source, select **Submit** to save health source.  
   
   The health source appears in the **Health Source to manage the service level** field.

6.  Select **Next**.

</details>

2. Select the **REQUEST** tab.

3. From the **Event type** dropdown list, select the type of event that you want to measure. The available options are **Good** and **Bad**.

> 4.  Select a metric from the dropdown list based on the event type you have chosen. The metric dropdown field that you see varies depending on the event type selected. For example, if you have chosen the **Good** event type, you will see the **Metric for good requests** dropdown list, while if you have chosen the **Bad** event type, you will see the **Metric for bad requests** dropdown list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.  Select a metric from the dropdown list based on the event type you have chosen. The metric dropdown field varies, depending on the event type selected. For example, if you have chosen the **Good** event type, you will see the **Metric for good requests** dropdown list, while if you have chosen the **Bad** event type, you will see the **Metric for bad requests** dropdown list.
```

:::info
The **Rolling period** type calculates the compliance period based on the current time and the length of the period. For example, if you select a rolling period of seven days, the compliance period will always be the last seven days, regardless of the current date.

On the other hand, the **Calendar period** type sets fixed calendar periods for the compliance period, such as weekly, monthly, or quarterly. For example, if you select a monthly period length, the compliance period will always be the entire calendar month, regardless of when the measurement starts.
:::

### Set error budget policy

Optionally, you can set up notifications for SLOs' error budget to keep your team informed about the remaining percentage and minutes, as well as the burn rate. With these alerts, you can ensure that your team is aware of any changes in your service's performance and takes appropriate action as needed. To learn how to set error budget policy notifications, go to [SLO notifications](../notifications/slo-notifications.md).

> ### Save

Reviewer: I'm not sure this content is needed?

Author: It is part of the SLO creation flow but an optional step.
